| [CMYK * i.
ETS) Listening. Learning. Leading

A Comprehensive Review

of Published GRE®
s Validity Data ®
H |
H EB
H A Summary from ETS -
1 nu
$s im
i) |
H [|
i |
1 un
7 mrEET EEEEETEEEE  ¢ | [&

¢ ve Rei Publis ARE® Validity
The Graduate Record Examinations* (GRE) General Test measures skils that faculty and graduate deans have
consistently said are essential to graduate school success. These skis of verbal reasoning, quantiative reasoning,
and critical thinking and analytical wing are foundational sis for applicants o a US. graduate program,
regardless of educational or linguistic background or country of orig.
Although the GRE Program has many studies of the predictive validity of the GRE General Test (which are available
on the GRE website: www.ets.org/gre), a recent meta-analysis by non-£TS fesearchers Nathan Kuncel, Sarah
Hezlett and Deniz Ones provides addional positive evidence of the relationship of the GRE General Test to various
teria of graduate school success. This meta-analysis is important because predicive valcy studies are often
difficult to conduct for 2 variety of reasons (eg, insufficient data test scores or predictors of success that do not
vary greatly across examinees). Compared with earlier esearch, the Kuncel ef
- al. meta-analysis improved on these studies by examining the val
Fae L, f ofthe GRE General Test for multiple discipines using multiple:
The criteria = : = measures of success, and by addressing statistical artfacts
for success yy = such as range restriction.
flscaty “a One strength of the Kuncel et a. research is that the
“ . meta-analysis analyzed data fiom a very large dota
~ setinvolving more than 1,753 independent samples
based on a pool of more than 80,000 studerts.
it ucces oes In action, th study looked a fe predictors of
h success and eight criteria for sucess. The predictors
- ~ included th three measures ofthe GRE General Test
s , (verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical
® ! reasoning), GRE Subject Test scores and undergraduate: ®
woe om ™ grade point average (UGPR). The crteri for success are
; shown in the gue to the left
i gp’ Each of these criteria can be considered a different dimension
i of successful performance in graduate school.
i Results of the Kuncel et al. study
i Results from this study show that:
3 1. The GRE General Test is a “generalzably valid predictor of ist year graduate GPA, oval graduate GPA,
H comprehensive exam scores, publication ciation counts and faculty ratings:
i i 2. The GRE General Test also correlates positively with degree attainment and research productivity.
it 25 The GRE Carll TS i ite predic Vly fin Geis 808s BF Kies of Eco iendaton.
1 4. The GRE Subject Tess are beter predictors of success than ether the GRE General Test or undergraduate GPA
ii [-
d i “This meta-analysis study is important because these results apply across a range of intended academic majors, |
i across native speakers of English and nonnative speakers of English, across traditional and nontraditional students.
iE and across master's and doctoral programs. |
i! a
il |
H TRIN TELS A od rs. 0.5 01) Acre ei of pce wd oe Got vcrdomts cs  pkose e |
th eon tami: ol 370) 1 I
i] 2 Te mop coe Te oye rtd Ee rose. oir ons es sic ser by Kare AB. Hos
iit STi dh, SA Oe) HE eh et Pc 5 |
ti
oh |

| ICMYK 4 IL
Validity of the Analytical Writing Measure
Because the Kuncel et a. meta-analysis was conducted before the Analytical Writing (AW) measure was
introduced ino the GRE General Test, it may be useful to include vay information fo tis measure. The two
tasks that comprise the AW are both considered essential in many fields of graduate study. These two tasks are
complementary in that th fst requis the wir to construct his/her own argument about an issue, and the
second requires a ciique of someone else's argument by assessing is claims. For ill all disciplines, AW adds
value 10 the GRE General Test because it provides unique information abou test-taker ailtes over and above:
skis measured in the Verbal and Quantitative measures.
Demonstating the construct validity ofthe wing measure can be done by showing how AW correlates with other
measures iti intended to resemble. As an ilstation, AW correlates positively vith other samples of academic
wing produced by examinees? as shown in th figure below. Bxaminees in this study were asked to provide two
wing samples: one representing their typical writen work and one not quite as well itn.
This graph shows that there i
a strong posiive relationship
between the GRE essay scores oe?
and both of the wing samples Relationship Botween Mean GRE Witing Assessment Scores and Mean
from examines. 1 should be Undergraduate Course-Related Writing Sample
noted that the AW conlates
with these other indicators of
witig kil more closely than Bs
: oes the personal statement F
® that many students submitwith | 3, ®
their applications i
: Furthermore, data indicate that a
| ees |
i with the quantitative measure and i 5
i 2 moderate corelaion (60) with
g the verbal measure — a finding $25
| sem B
i and intent of those measures "
i Thus, AW is providing unique: a B am . ow BE
it and valuable information beyond GE Eee score Lov!
GO RmegseGeed | [ere + so]
i Test measures.
ii
Hi Summary
31 Because faculty want to make the best possible admissions decisions about graduate school applicants, tis =
iH important to look objectively a the predictive value of the GRE General Test. The Kuncel et al. study used al I
bi esting data to ave at the study's conclusions that the GRE General Test is a valid predictor of many citeria of
H graduate school success. In additon, other research has demonstrated that the Analytical Wing section of the GRE |
il General Test can provide valuable information about applicants’ abilities to produce analytical essays. For these |
: H reasons, the GRE General Test is a valuable asset in the graduate admissions process. |
11 -
ii 5 or DE. Foe ME Wet, CX (575) ro von of ng ssn pode iss, HE eter 5.13 Pcs, €5
th Fo DF od one WE (5) perl ret 0 eka org A bony 1. ens Ant 4 981 [—
fa 5 Teron bw eb 0 ise rs 5
H |
ii] un
mE" EEEEETEEEER & | [@

| ICMYK * IL
& ®
: For More Information

H To get the most up-to-date information about the GRE General Test,

H please visit WWW.ets.0rg/gre or contact an ETS representative at (609) 683-2002.

i

i! ro) [-
1 (ETS! iB
E |
i |
AH Listening. Learning. Leading” |
1] nu
iH www.els.org O
: =
i i ty oi, 70 Ts TO, LAG LRG, [-
it: GRADUATE RECORD EYAMNATION rl GF ts str Fach of Eas oi Sens E75. 7043 EB
id u
mE" EEEEETEEEER & | [®

